Object Oriented Programming allows us to create objects that have their own methods like run and attributes
properties.
It's a great way to add more functionality to a language and mimic the real world.
For example we use the idea of working for a gaming company.
Although Python only gave us a few data types I was able to create a player character and now my boss
is happy because this player character can be used all over the game and all other coders have to do
is run this line with the custom name and age of the character.
So Opie allows us to write code that is repeatable well organized and also memory efficient right because
we only write this once so if you want to be a great developer O P is something that you need to know
and you need to understand because well this is how you want to organize your code.
Thinking less procedural and thinking more in terms of functionality grouping data like attributes together
with methods to create this class that is able to mimic something from the real world.
Now I want to show you a useful tool here.
We saw that when I do player dot my editor shows me what I have available the properties as well as
these purple boxes which are the methods that I have available and right off the bat.
You see that I have h name and run but then I have all these other ones that I got by default.
Now these are all Dunder or magic methods which we're gonna get into but the key here is that if I do
something like Help which is a new function that you may have not seen before and let's comment this
out if I click Run I actually get well the entire blueprint of the object if I do something like a list
and I click Run Again it shows the blueprint that it has.
And this is a great way to see what class blueprint some of the Python data types have.
Now this is something we'll revisit later but I want to go back to this.
This player character now in here we saw that we're able to create attributes and attributes are pieces
of data that are dynamic.
That is when we instantiate an object they are going to be unique to that specific object like name
and age.
And we had to use this self keyword to make sure that it was dynamic however there's a another thing
called the class object attribute and it might look like this.
Let's say we had the player character and they had to let's say be a paying member in order to play
this game.
You have to have played or you have to have gotten a membership.
So let's have a membership equals true attribute.
Now unlike this one you see that it's on the same line as our methods.
And this is called a class object
in a class object attribute unlike these regular class attributes is different because while it's not
dynamic it's static.
So if I click run here and we want to make sure that we print something so let's print player 2 and
I click Run Ball I get the player.
That's great but if I do dot membership and I click Run look at that I get that equal to true.
If I do Player 1 here as well and I click Run I get true again.
So all the players have membership set to true but this is not dynamic it's a class object attribute
which means it's an actual attribute on this class and this is something we use when there's no change.
This is going to be true and exist for all objects so you can't really modify it is just all the objects
that we instantiate will have access to it so this doesn't change across instances and we can use this
down here as well or anywhere in this class blueprint.
As a matter of fact for example let's say we wanted to check if membership exists.
So we're checking if membership is true which I mean it always is.
So this is a little bit redundant but in here I can say only if membership is true then I'm going to
assign name and age but in order for us to access membership I'll have to do self dot membership because
remember self refers to this player character so that if I run this everything still works and if I
do if player one dot name
this still works or I can refer to this by the actual player character.
So player character dot membership.
So if I click Run here this also works because it's a class object attribute if I wear two perhaps in
the run let's change this to shout and in shout it's going to 1 or run let's remove this line it's going
to print an F string that says My name is and give it a name.
Do you think this will work.
Let's give it a try.
Let's say shout and make sure we run that method and then click shout again if I click Run I get an
error name is not defined on line eleven.
If I go to line you love in here.
Name is not defined.
Why is that.
Well because we haven't used self.
So let's do self dot name and in fact click Run.
There you go.
My name is Tom.
My name is Cindy OK.
Awesome.
And I'm able to yourself because I pass it into here as the first parameter and all methods receive
the first parameter a self so that we can use them.
But could I just do player character Don name if I click Run I get an error.
Play a character has no attribute name.
Now why is that.
Because name is not a class object attribute.
It's not actually a property or an attribute of Player Character.
No it's defined in our constructor function are init function so that's a bit of a gotcha here and something
that you'll have to get used to a class object attribute is something that doesn't change across different
instances versus an attribute or a class attribute is something that is dynamic and specific to each
class object the way we access them is different where we can actually access membership like this but
in order for us to access a name or age anywhere inside of our class we have to use the self dog name
which is why anytime we create a method in a class even if I create a new one over here and let's say
this new one is going to be run well once again I'll have to use self as a parameter and then anything
else that I want to add in here as the second parameter so that when I click let's say Run I pass in
the hello argument like this I know this is a lot but hopefully you're starting to follow the rules
of classes once you remember these rules then it becomes easier and easier but we'll practice this a
little bit more in the next video.